docs(ivy): add docs for styling priority order (#35066)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/template-syntax.md

### Class binding

Here's how to set the `class` attribute without a binding in plain HTML:

```html
<!-- standard class attribute setting -->
<div class="foo bar">Some text</div>
```

You can also add and remove CSS class names from an element's `class` attribute with a **class binding**.

To create a single class binding, start with the prefix `class` followed by a dot (`.`) and the name of the CSS class (for example, `[class.foo]="hasFoo"`). 

> Angular adds the class when the bound expression is truthy, and it removes the class when the expression is falsy (with the exception of `undefined`, see [styling delegation](#styling-delegation))..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Angular adds the class when the bound expression is truthy, and it removes the class when the expression is falsy (with the exception of `undefined`, see [styling delegation](#styling-delegation)).
```

If there are multiple bindings to the same class name, conflicts are resolved using [styling precedence](#styling-precedence).

<style>
  td, th {vertical-align: top}
</style>

<table width="100%">
  <col width="15%">
  </col>
  <col width="20%">
  </col>
  <col width="40%">
  </col>
  <col width="25%">
  </col>
  <tr>
    <th>
      Binding Type
    </th>
    <th>
      Syntax
    </th>
    <th>
      Input Type
    </th>
    <th>
      Example Input Values
    </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Single class binding</td>
    <td><code>[class.foo]="hasFoo"</code></td>
    <td><code>boolean | undefined | null</code></td>
    <td><code>true</code>, <code>false</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan=3>Multi-class binding</td>
    <td rowspan=3><code>[class]="classExpr"</code></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td><code>"my-class-1 my-class-2 my-class-3"</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>object</code>
    (<code>{[key: string]: boolean | undefined | null}</code>)</td>
    <td><code>{foo: true, bar: false}</code></td>
  </tr>
</table>

The [NgClass](#ngclass) directive can be used as an alternative to direct `[class]` bindings. 

> However, using the above class binding syntax without `NgClass` is preferred because `NgClass` may eventually be removed in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, using the above class binding syntax without `NgClass` is preferred because due to improvements in class binding in Angular, `NgClass` no longer provides significant value, and might eventually be removed in the future.
```

Reviewer: @kara wdyt? I just don't want people to think that we are going to remove it just because we feel like it.

Author: Yeah, that's much better, will update

Add and remove CSS class names from an element's `class` attribute with

> a **class binding**.

Author: Do you mean I should remove this whole sentence? (probably don't mean just those 3 words?)

> a **class binding**.

Author: Ohhh I see what you mean (just saw the comment after). Will fix.

Here's how to set the attribute without a binding in plain HTML:

```html
<!-- standard class attribute setting -->
<div class="item clearance special">Item clearance special</div>
```

Class binding syntax resembles property binding, but instead of an element property between brackets, start with the prefix `class`,

> optionally followed by a dot (`.`) and the name of a CSS class: `[class.class-name]`. 

Author: I think the intent of this sentence was only to talk about `class.foo`, not `class`. Not sure where you're seeing that part?

> optionally followed by a dot (`.`) and the name of a CSS class: `[class.class-name]`. 

Author: Discussed offline (it was the "optionally")

Angular adds the class when the template expression evaluates to truthy.
It removes the class when the expression is falsy.
 
Binding to a specific class is additive, so it won't overwrite other class bindings or static classes unless the class names are duplicated.

In the example below, the final class list for the `<div>` will be `"item clearance special"` if `isSpecial` is truthy, and only `"item clearance"` if it is falsy.

<code-example path="attribute-binding/src/app/app.component.html" region="add-class" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example> 

> You can also use the alternative class binding syntax that replaces square brackets with the `bind-` keyword:

Author: I'd be curious if people are actually using it (maybe ask @StephenFluin). If it's relatively rare, I think it's good to reduce the API surface this way.

> You can also use the alternative class binding syntax that replaces square brackets with the `bind-` keyword:

Reviewer 2: I'd love to get rid of it as well. Very rare.

> You can also use the alternative class binding syntax that replaces square brackets with the `bind-` keyword:

Author: OK, I'm going to remove the docs here then.

> You can also use the alternative class binding syntax that replaces square brackets with the `bind-` keyword:

Reviewer 2: Hrm. I would wait to remove it until we have removed/deprecated it from Angular.

> You can also use the alternative class binding syntax that replaces square brackets with the `bind-` keyword:

Author: It's already documented elsewhere in this guide. Repeating it here would just be emphasizing it.

<code-example path="attribute-binding/src/app/app.component.html" region="bind-syntax" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example> 

If there are multiple classes you'd like to toggle, you can bind to the `[class]` property directly.
Binding to `[class]` is additive, so it shouldn't overwrite other class bindings or static classes unless the class names are duplicated*.

<code-example path="attribute-binding/src/app/app.component.html" region="direct-class-binding" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

The expression attached to the `[class]` binding is most often a string list of class names like `"clearance special"`. 

You can also format the expression as an object with class names as the keys and truthy/falsy expressions as the values, like `{clearance: true, special: false}`. 
In this case, Angular will add a class only if its associated value is truthy.
It's important to note that with object format, the identity of the object must change for the class list to be updated.

> Updating the property without changing object identity will have no effect.

Author: When you say the examples are not very useful, can you be more specific? I think a table without examples is more confusing.

> Updating the property without changing object identity will have no effect.

Author: Discussed offline

</div>

If there are multiple styles you'd like to toggle, you can bind to the `[style]` property directly.
Binding to `[style]` is additive, so it shouldn't overwrite other style bindings or static styles unless the same style property is duplicated.

<code-example path="attribute-binding/src/app/app.component.html" region="direct-style-binding" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

The expression attached to the `[style]` binding is most often a string list of styles like `"width: 100px; height: 100px;"`. 

You can also format the expression as an object with style names as the keys and style values as the values, like `{width: '100px', height: '100px'}`. 
It's important to note that with object format, the identity of the object must change for the styles to be updated.
Updating the property without changing object identity will have no effect.

If there are multiple bindings to the same style property, conflicts are resolved using [styling priority order](#styling-priority).

> *This is true for Angular version 9 and later. For Angular version 8, see <a href="http://v8.angular.io/guide/template-syntax#style-binding">v8.angular.io</a>

Author: Fair enough, I'll just drop it

    <td><code>number | undefined | null</code></td>
    <td><code>100</code></td>
  </tr>
    <tr>
    <td rowspan=3>Multi-style binding</td>
    <td rowspan=3><code>[style]="styleExpr"</code></td>
    <td><code>string</code></td>
    <td><code>"width: 100px; height: 100px"</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>object</code>
    (<code>{[key: string]: string | undefined | null}</code>)</td>
    <td><code>{width: '100px', height: '100px'}</code></td>
  </tr>
</table>

The [NgStyle](#ngstyle) directive can be used as an alternative to direct `[style]` bindings. 
However, using the above style binding syntax without `NgStyle` is preferred because `NgStyle` may eventually be removed in the future.

<hr/>

{@a styling-precedence}
### Styling Precedence

A single HTML element can have its CSS class list and style values bound to a multiple sources (for example, host bindings from multiple directives).

When there are multiple bindings to the same class name or style property, Angular uses a set of precedence rules to resolve conflicts and determine which classes or styles are ultimately applied to the element.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

> <h3>Styling precedence (highest to lowest)</h3>

Reviewer: because this is an h3 it shows up in the right-hand TOC as a duplicate heading. Can you change this to h4?
<img width="297" alt="Screen Shot 2020-02-05 at 5 57 51 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/216296/73899300-1031e180-4841-11ea-9cee-bc4404603490.png">

1. Template bindings
    1. Property binding (for example, `<div [class.foo]="hasFoo">` or `<div [style.color]="color">`)
    1. Map binding (for example, `<div [class]="classExpr">` or `<div [style]="styleExpr">`)
    1. Static value (for example, `<div class="foo">` or `<div style="color: blue">`) 
1. Directive host bindings
    1. Property binding (for example, `host: {'[class.foo]': 'hasFoo'}` or `host: {'[style.color]': 'color'}`)
    1. Map binding (for example, `host: {'[class]': 'classExpr'}` or `host: {'[style]': 'styleExpr'}`)
    1. Static value (for example, `host: {'class': 'foo'}` or `host: {'style': 'color: blue'}`)    
1. Component host bindings
    1. Property binding (for example, `host: {'[class.foo]': 'hasFoo'}` or `host: {'[style.color]': 'color'}`)
    1. Map binding (for example, `host: {'[class]': 'classExpr'}` or `host: {'[style]': 'styleExpr'}`)
    1. Static value (for example, `host: {'class': 'foo'}` or `host: {'style': 'color: blue'}`)    

> </div>

Reviewer: this callout+ordered list looks so much better. thank you!

Here you can see the use of a `click()` event binding and the property binding syntax
(`[attr.fill]="fillColor"`).

## Appendix

{@a styling-priority}
### Styling Priority Order

> When there are multiple bindings to the same class name or style property, Angular uses priority order to resolve conflicts and determine which classes or styles are ultimately applied to the element.

Author: I say this later: 

> It's possible for an element to have bindings in the template where it's declared, from host bindings on matched directives, and from host bindings on matched components.

Trying not to duplicate too much

> The more specific a style is, the higher its priority. 

Author: I mean both - maybe `styling binding`

A general `[class]` binding will have lower priority than a binding to a specific class (e.g. `[class.foo]`), and a general `[style]` binding will have lower priority than a binding to a specific style (e.g. `[style.bar]`).

<code-example path="attribute-binding/src/app/app.component.html" region="basic-specificity" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

Specificity rules also apply when it comes to bindings that come from different sources. 
It's possible for a node to have bindings on the template itself, from host bindings on matched directives, and from host bindings on matched components.

> Template bindings are the most specific because they apply to only one node at a time, so they have the highest priority.

Author: Thanks, this is what I was struggling to say

Directive host bindings are considered less specific because directives can be used in multiple locations, so they have a lower priority than template bindings.

Directives often augment component behavior, so host bindings from components have the lowest priority. 

<code-example path="attribute-binding/src/app/app.component.html" region="source-specificity" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

Dynamic styles also take precedence over static styles. 

In the following case, `class` and `[class]` have similar specificity, but the `[class]` binding will have higher priority because it is dynamic.

<code-example path="attribute-binding/src/app/app.component.html" region="dynamic-priority" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

Below is a full priority list, ranked from highest (top) to lowest (bottom):

> * Template bindings

Reviewer: and maybe even turn it into a callout because right now the examples surrounding it completely dominate the page and this list while being the most important in the viewport is almost completely lost.

  * Property binding (e.g. `<div [class.foo]="hasFoo">`)
  * Map binding (e.g. `<div [class]="classExpr">`)
  * Static value (e.g. `<div class="foo">`)
  
* Directive host bindings
  * Property binding (e.g. `host: {'[class.foo]': 'hasFoo'}`)
  * Map binding (e.g. `host: {'[class]': 'classExpr'}`)
  * Static value (e.g. `host: {'class': 'foo'}`)
  
* Component host bindings
  * Property binding (e.g. `host: {'[class.foo]': 'hasFoo'}`)
  * Map binding (e.g. `host: {'[class]': 'classExpr'}`)
  * Static value (e.g. `host: {'class': 'foo'}`)

> 

Reviewer 3: We should use "for example" or "such as" in place of "e.g." for clarity (think non-native English speakers and those with less exposure to Latin).

Author: Oh, that makes sense! I wasn't thinking of non-native English speakers, so that's a good callout. I'll fix.

{@a styling-delegation}
### Delegating to lower priority styles

It is possible for higher priority styles to "delegate" to lower priority styles using `undefined` values.

> Whereas setting a style property to `null` will ensure the style is removed, setting it to `undefined` will cause Angular to fall back to the next-highest priority binding to that style.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Whereas setting a style property to `null` ensures the style is removed, setting it to `undefined` causes Angular to fall back to the next-highest priority binding to that style.
```

> For example, let's say there is the following template: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, consider the following template: 
```

<code-example path="attribute-binding/src/app/app.component.html" region="style-delegation" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

> And let's say `dirWithHostBinding` and `comp-with-host-binding` both have a `[style.width]` host binding.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Imagine that `dirWithHostBinding` and `comp-with-host-binding` both have a `[style.width]` host binding.
```
